PRACTICAL NO. 3

Aim :- Configure NFS server to share directories or files on your network.

Theory:-
NFS is not a static protocol. Standards committees have helped NFS evolve to take advantage of new technologies, as well as changes in usage patterns.
At the time of this writing, three well-known versions of the protocol exist: NFS version 2 (NFSv2), NFS version 3 (NFSv3), and NFS version 4 (NFSv4). 
NFSv3 is the standard with perhaps the widest use. NFSv4 has been in development for a while and is the newest standard.
NFSv2 shouldprobably be avoided if possible and should be considered only for legacy reasons.NFSv3 should be considered if stability and widest range of client support are desired.NFSv4 should be considered if its bleeding-edge features are needed and probably for very new deployments where backward compatibility is not an issue. Perhaps the most important factor in deciding which version of NFS to consider would be the version that your NFS clients will support. 
Here are some of the features of each NFS version: 
NFSv2 Mount requests are granted on a per-host basis and not on a peruser basis. This version uses Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or User Datagram Protocol (UDP) as its transport protocol. Version 2 clients have a file size limitation of less than 2 gigabytes (GB) that they can access.
NFSv3 This version includes a lot of fixes for the bugs in NFSv2. It has more features than version 2, has performance gains over version 2, and can use either TCP or UDP as its transport protocol. Depending on the local file system limits of the NFS server itself, clients can access files larger than 2GB in size. Mount requests are also granted on a per-host basis and not on a per-user basis
NFSv4 This version of the protocol uses a stateful protocol such as TCP or Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) as its transport.

Commands:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install nfs-kernel-server
sudo mkdir /path/dir_name
sudo chown nobody:nogroup dir_path
sudo chmod 777 dir_path
cd dir_path
sudo nano /etc/exports Or sudo vi /etc/exports
dir_path clientIP(rw,sync,no_subtree_check)
sudo exportfs –a
sudo systemctl restart nfs-kernel-server
sudo ufw allow from clientIP to any port nfs
sudo ufw status


